AWS - Cfamily computer - Youtube

AMI - Amazon Machin Instance

1.RAM 1GB
2.CPU 1processor 

1 and 2 comes under EC2(Elastic Cloud compute)

3. 30GB storage 

3 comes under EBS - Elastci Block Store


t2.micro is the one which manages 1,2 and 3.


Tenancy has two types.

Shared Tenancy 		Dedicated tenancy 

free tier eligible(less price)		charges are high

for any instance(machine..physical or virtual)

werequire RAM, processor, IP address, storage

except storage, all resources will be shared once we shut down in shared tenancy

Elastic IP(IP is permanent,chargeable mthly)-> we can use this to shared or dedicated tenancy

In dedicated, resources are permanent including IP


S3 - Storage Service in AWS

-supports Unlimited storage
-For backup storage
-Supports any kind of file system/files


ELB - Elastic Load Balancing
ELB manages load and sends requests to servers which are idle or less busy

Auto Scaling - 


We configure Auto scaling to ELB

Ex: If server reaches 90% of capacity then create an instance to ELB and if load is reduced then remove new server


Pros - Cost cutting

VPC : Virtual Private Cloud

We can create own private cloud in Amazon

In VPC, we can set our own private network

Route53:

DNS service in AWS

IP to Hostname and Hostname to IP


EC2 == Elastic Cloud Computing

1. How to launch instances(Linux, Windows)
2. How to access Instance
3. Creating AMI(Amazon Machine Instance)
4. Taking Snapshot

To get  the same type of instance we use AMI

It reduces creation/install time

go to AWS.AMAZON.com

Account ID : 249418148934 
Account name : venu_ezgiri


1) Select OS in AWS
2) Select Instance
	RAM-4GB
	CPU
by default t2.micro-> 1GB RAM and 1CPU   


2) Accessing Instance

1. Putty(Internally uses SSH)
2. Install Linux
  SSH
3. Install Git 
   SSH


AWS Cloud Fomration  

-> It is Automation in AWS
We can automate almost all the services in AWS
We write JSON or YAML scripts to create an EC2 instance
AWS provides templates for us 
We ca write scripts using these templates
We submit these scripts then cloud formation creates an instance

Eg : I want to create EC2 instance for REDHAT linux 7 and type is t2.micro  -- free inst
assign def sec group

Under Management tools-> Cloud formation














